
.. |date| date::


==========================
allocPSA v1.3 User Manual
==========================
-----------------------------------------------------------------
The Premier Open Source Professional Services Automation Solution
-----------------------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: images/icon_alloc.png

**Cybersource Pty Ltd.  ACN 053 904 082  ABN 13 053 904 082**

**Level 4, 10 Queen Street Melbourne, Victoria 3000 Australia**

http://www.cybersource.com.au/

THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY.

The information furnished in this document, believed by Cybersource to be
accurate as of the date of its publication, is subject to change without
notice. Cybersource assumes no responsibility for any errors or omissions in
this document and shall have no obligation to you as a result of having made
this document available to you or based upon the information it contains. 

Cybersource and allocPSA are registered trademarks of Cybersource Pty. Ltd.
All other products and services are the registered trademarks of their
respective holders. 

Written By: kei, Con Zymaris, Alex Lance, Jeremy Chin, robbie, Erick Fabre,
Trent Buck, Manjula Arulananther.

Creation Date: 2001-10-25

Modification Date: |date|


This documentation is released under the GNU GPL `www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>`_

.. sectnum::
.. contents:: Table of Contents





Administrative Information
==========================

The original administration account on allocPSA is:

.. list-table::

   - - username: 
     - alloc
   - - password: 
     - alloc

NOTE: You (or the technician deploying allocPSA) should change this password
promptly. Instructions on how to change this password are shown later in this
manual. 


Purpose and Audience
====================

The purpose of this documentation is 2-fold:

1. To provide a complete set of documentation for printing purposes.

2. To provide a complete on-line set of documentation for user perusal


How to Obtain Latest Versions of allocPSA
=========================================

allocPSA is open source software, meaning you can gain access to the latest
versions of the product directly from the project's website:
http://www.allocpsa.org/

How to Contact Cybersource
==========================

Full contact details are available from http://www.cybersource.com.au/ or by
emailing `info@cyber.com.au <mailto:info@cyber.com.au>`_

.. list-table::

   - - Address
     - Level 4, 10 Queen Street
   - - City
     - Melbourne
   - - Country
     - Australia
   - - Postcode
     - 3000
   - - Phone
     - +61 3 9621 2377
   - - Fax
     - +61 3 9621 2477
   - - Email
     - info@cyber.com.au
   - - Web
     - http://www.cybersource.com.au/

Product Support Community
===============================

Free, community support for allocPSA is available here:

http://sourceforge.net/forum/forum.php?forum_id=562148

This is a web forum system where you can join, post your queries and get
responses from the allocPSA user community.

Product Support Commercial
================================

allocPSA is free, open source software. As such, you are free to use it in any manner you like. This includes:

1. installing and using allocPSA in a commercial environment, in a commercial
   manner,

2. installing and using allocPSA on as many computers or servers as you like,
   and

3. having allocPSA accessed and used by as many users as you like.

If you have the technical skill in-house or can hire them, you may be happy to
support and maintain this product on your own. However, allocPSA was developed
and is commercially supported by Cybersource Pty. Ltd., based in Melbourne,
Australia.

Cybersource has been providing commercial support since 1991 and has been the
allocPSA product developer and maintainer since 2000. As such, we can offer
your firm high-quality support. In addition, because allocPSA is open source
software, and any other competent web-development firm can also elect to offer
commercial support for it, Cybersource must also offer great value in its
support services.



Per Incident
------------

The first level of support is on a per-incident basis. Per-incident support is
offered on a best-effort basis and is capped at two (2) hours actual
expended effort. Contact Cybersource for pricing.


Service Level Agreement Pre-Purchase Block
------------------------------------------

The service level of support is a pre-paid incident support block. By
purchasing a pre-paid support block (in multiples of 5 incidents), you can
save through a price discount and you are also placed on a Service Level
Agreement (SLA). The service level agreement guarantees that we will actively
work towards resolving your support incident within two hours of initial
notification. This is during AEST (UTC +10) standard business hours, Monday to
Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm, excluding public holidays. 

Contact Cybersource to discuss your commercial support needs.



Pre-installed Server Appliance
------------------------------

.. figure:: images/allocPSA_server_appliance.png

If you would like to have allocPSA professionally installed on
production-quality server hardware, Cybersource makes available the allocPSA
Server Appliance. 

The server appliance contains the operating system platform, SQL database
server, web server, application server and allocPSA suite pre-installed. The
server appliance comes bundled with 10 hours of installation, data migration
and operational support.



The server appliance ships in the form of a: 

1. Business class 1RU/2RU Server.

2. Minimum 2.4Ghz+class x86 CPU,

3. 512MBRAM,

4. Standard 80 GB mirrored disk storage (160GB of disk).

5. Linux operating system,

6. SQL database server,

7. Web server.

8. Application server.

9. Compatible with Windows 95, 98, Me, 2000, XP, 2003, Mac OS 9, OS X, Linux
   (all versions), Unix (most versions)

10. Works with Internet Explorer, version 5.0 and above, Netscape 6.0 and
    above, Mozilla, Firefox, Opera, Konqueror, elinks, lynx.



Customisation
-------------

No two services businesses work the same way. To provide for this reality,
allocPSA was designed and is intended to be customised for each site. To that
end, Cybersource offers your firm a complete customisation service, whereby
allocPSA can be optimised for your work processes, your firm's accounting and
billing practices and the software used to implement these, or any other
site-specific requirements.

If allocPSA does most of what your business needs but could benefit from
specific functionality to make it better integrate with your existing business
systems or processes, speak to us about a free quote to add those features into
allocPSA.

Alternatively, as allocPSA is completely open source, you can elect to make any
modifications in-house, or hire a third-party to make any modifications. You
are fully entitled to select either course of action.

Making Your Own Customisations
------------------------------

As allocPSA is released under the GPL, you are welcome to make your own
site-specific customisations. However, the GPL requires that if you pass this
modified application on to others beyond your organisation, that you give them
the source code to the modifications as well, thereby affording them the same
freedoms that you have enjoyed.

If you do build extensions onto allocPSA, please consider donating these back
to the allocPSA project. This will provide two benefits:

1. You will be making a contribution back to the community, so that allocPSA
   grows in capabilities and polish, with time.

2. You will reduce your level of burden by feeding your code changes back
   up stream, you will let the project maintainers maintain your modified
   codebase, ensuring that new versions include the features you want and that
   these continue to work with the other new as well as the existing
   features in newer versions of allocPSA.

Integration
-----------

Cybersource maintains a full integration, support and development team which is
able to assist you in integrating allocPSA into your organisation's information
system architecture. In fact, if you've purchased the allocPSA server
appliance, the price for allocPSA includes a pre-purchased quanta of
installation, customisation and support services.


Introduction
============

Welcome to the user-level documentation for allocPSA. 

allocPSA is an on-line, web-based Professional Services Automation
system. allocPSA provides a suite of integrated applications designed for
organisations which provide services to clients. It enables services personnel
to become more productive and profitable by increasing their efficiency through
increased utilisation and productive time, improved planning and integrated
knowledge management. It reduces the likelihood of slip-ups and increases the
traceability and manageability of projects, expenses, tasks and people. 

allocPSA can streamline the process of allocating staff resources to key
projects, managing strategic initiatives at a granular level, and can offer a
platform for process collaboration and knowledge reuse to any professional
services business.

allocPSA consists of numerous software modules for business areas such as:
resource planning, project management, time and expenses, fault & issues
tracking, message, announcement, reminder and knowledge management,
collaboration, services supply chain, human resources and staff skilling and
certification, item loans and management of cost-centres. allocPSA offers
integration between the modules, as well as an open architecture and
integration with existing external invoicing, book-keeping and payroll systems.

allocPSA is intended for use in daily organisational operations, such as
client contact, project management, task and resource allocation, skills
tracking, time-sheeting, issues tracking, calendaring, reminders and
escalation, item loans, cost expenses and centres as well as integration with
existing external accounts and billing systems. 

allocPSA is made available as a server-based appliance. By deploying an
allocPSA system into your network, all staff can access the application from
any networked computer which has a web browser. Depending on your network
configuration and security policies, staff can also access the allocPSA system
from external computers. Therefore, they can monitor tasks and submit
timesheets from home, or from any Internet-access point around the world.

As a web-based application, users access allocPSA via the standard web-browser
they already have on their PCs. No software needs to be installed on their PCs.
Installation and maintenance of allocPSA is therefore a simple and
straightforward affair. The new server is installed and configured in hours and
all users' PCs are able to access the allocPSA application immediately.

allocPSA is open source software - you are provided with full access to the
complete source code under an open source (GPL) licence. That means you have
open-ended usage and code modification access rights. This greatly reduces your
business risks in adopting allocPSA as a system element in your core business
operations. The product's source code will always be yours in perpetual code
escrow, at no additional cost.

Deployment
----------

allocPSA is supplied as in a number of 'formats':

1. As a self-contained server appliance unit. The server appliance contains the
   operating system platform, SQL server, web server and core allocPSA
   applications.

2. As a download from http://www.allocpsa.org/ which will need to be installed
   on a web application server.

3. As a live CD, which can be installed simply and easily by a non-technical
   person, onto a spare PC. (See below for more information.)

allocPSA is an on-line, web-based suite. The core system can be deployed in
less than an hour, and requires no workstation-level software installation, as
allocPSA works with almost any Internet-standard web-browser. 

allocPSA can be used by hundreds of simultaneous users, within your Local Area
Network, campus network, wireless network, Wide Area network or as an extranet
application by authorised personnel and partners from anywhere on the Internet

LiveAllocPSA
------------

If you'd like to obtain and run a copy of allocPSA, but either don't have the
in-house skills to deploy and maintain the platform that allocPSA needs to run,
i.e. Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP, then this is the solution for you.

LiveAllocPSA delivers the whole allocPSA application and system software stack
in an easy to run product that runs live off the CD. All you need to run this
version is a spare PC. 

Normally, you would need a Linux/Unix server, an installed instance of Apache,
MySQL and the PHP application server, along with a number of other libraries
and system components. LiveAllocPSA packs all this into a live Linux CD, which
means that you can run it off the CD and with minimal installation effort. If
you've never installed an operating system or database server beforehand, then
this product is for you.

What You Need
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

LiveAllocPSA ships as a live Linux CD. To run it, you need the following as a
PC or server:

1. Minimum 500MHz x86 CPU

2. Minimum 128MB of RAM

3. Minimum 2 GB of Hard Disk

What You Get
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LiveAllocPSA product ships as a CD and manual. The manual provides both
installation and operation instructions.

**How It Works**

In order to run allocPSA off the LiveAllocPSA system, all you need to do is
insert the CD into a spare PC and reboot. The LiveAllocPSA installer will then
erase and reformat your hard disk and set up an area on the hard disk for
allocPSA to store all its data. The web server, database and application server
are then started, and allocPSA is then available to use. LiveAllocPSA will
display on-screen the IP address or URL that you can point your web browser at
to use the application.

Benefits
~~~~~~~~

The key benefit of LiveAllocPSA is ease of installation and convenience. You
can install it on a blank PC in under 10 minutes. You can upgrade it by
replacing the old CD with any new upgrade CD. You know that once operational,
LiveAllocPSA can keep running and running unless your PC hardware fails. And
surprisingly, even though running off a CD, it runs at lightning speed.

Buying LiveAllocPSA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can contact Cybersource by email for order information:
<`info@cybersource.com.au <mailto:info@cybersource.com.au>`_>

Open Source Reducing Business Continuity Risks
----------------------------------------------

allocPSA has been designed to offer your firm the ultimate in flexible
deployment integration and ongoing control. To that end, the complete source
code for allocPSA is supplied under a GPL open source licence. You are then
able to extend, modify or maintain this code, should you so wish, or hire 3rd
parties to undertake this work for you.


Installation and Configuration
==============================

Once you've installed allocPSA, you must login and then change the default
login account password. You can do this by accessing the default account
through the People tab and supplying a new strong account password.

You should also update the allocPSA configuration settings, found by clicking
the 'Setup' link in the top right hand corner of the allocPSA toolbar. You can
get more information about each configuration item, by using the Help
squares to the right of each configuration option.

.. figure:: images/config.png

   Change the allocPSA configuration information as soon as you can.


Features & Benefits
===================

Modern businesses are quickly recognizing the need to make intelligent use of
information throughout the organization to better address support issues and
other business problems. allocPSA can help track and manage customer requests,
problems, complaints, tasks and any other projects that need to be tracked.
Web-based action tracking offers the best and most simple way to gain control
over information, issues and tasks for a group or department, or throughout an
organization worldwide. 

With the increasing business requirement that information management systems
provide substantial and immediate return on investment, 

allocPSA is the answer to many of your service-industry information management
concerns.

Among other features, allocPSA provides a comprehensive multilevel,
multi-project planning, scheduling and reporting engine scalable to thousands
of projects. The ability to search for qualified and available resources,
assign tasks and manage staff with a powerful resource search engine across
single or multiple projects. 

allocPSA also offers cost-control management and project graphical and
milestone-enabled Gantt-style bar chart reporting capabilities. This makes
allocPSA a valuable platform for managing the priorities and objectives that
drive your business.

Using proven project management disciplines and processes, allocPSA helps you
optimize resources and manage activities to meet project deadlines and budgets. 

allocPSA automatically generates customizable outgoing email alerts to
instantly notify relevant assignees, managers and other people involved with
all aspects of service delivery. Daily email alerts, sent to all resources,
outlines that day's key tasks and scheduled events, meetings and expectations.

A task and reminder Calendar is available for all staff on entry into allocPSA,
via the Home page.

A filtering drill-down facility to resource (personnel) availability and
skilling makes it possible to determine which of your staff is suited for
particular project and tasks.

allocPSA provides a simple inventory and loans management module, a framework
for producing project cost-estimators, a graphical chart representation of
historical and current business activity, as well as an open-ended and
customisable report generator which allows you to extract data to a web-page or
CSV file, ready for mail-merges or exporting.

For more information, please contact Cybersource.

Home
----

One-stop overview of user's daily/weekly calendar, company announcements,
reminders, tasks, projects, cost-centre balances, submitted or timesheets
pending approval. 

Project Management
------------------

1. Contract, consultancy, implementation or other templates of projects.

2. Customer contacts, information, budgets, timesheet authoriser.

3. Document and file attachments.

4. Project-wide reminders.

5. Project-wide notes and modification history.

6. Resource, internal and external rates.

7. One or more project leaders who can review project status.

8. Project activity graphs, showing overdue tasks.

9. Timesheet history and comparison to budget estimates.


Tasks
-----

1. Implements tasks, subtasks, project phases, faults and messages.

2. Unlimited number of tasks per project.

3. Unlimited number of comments per task.

4. Unlimited number of reminders/escalations per task

5. Escalation regime for priority tasks not completed within time limits.

Timesheets
----------

1. Very flexible timesheet workflow engine.

2. Allocation of timesheets on a per-project, per staff basis.

3. Routes timesheets (and sends notification email) to specific project's
   managers for approval.

4. Subsequently routes of timesheets (along with notification email) to
   financial administrators for invoicing/payroll.

Financials
----------

1. Staff, project and general cost-centres, including transfer and tracking of
   funds between cost-centre accounts.

2. Importing and exporting of invoices/billing.

3. Allocation of invoice payments to staff, project and general cost-centres.

4. Searching of invoices related to projects.

5. Expense forms and claims for staff and projects.

6. Supports repeat/cyclical expenses in cost-centres

7. Reconciliation report.

8. Integration with external payroll and accounting systems

Clients
-------

1. Full customer company details

2. Unlimited contacts per company

3. Allocation of primary contact status

4. Unlimited notes per company

5. Unlimited document attachments

6. Overview of projects undertaken for this company

7. Actual and potential project revenue from this company

Item Loans
----------

1. Open-ended item loan, borrowing lists and overdue status

Personnel
---------

1. Unlimited number of staff resources/personnel.

2. Information detail on availability.

3. Flexible and powerful skills tracking engine, adaptable to any industry.

4. Overview of resource allocation, tasks, overdue tasks etc.

Calendaring/Reminders
---------------------

1. Week, fortnight and month overview of tasks, appointments and reminders.

2. Project and task-level reminders.

3. Cyclical repeat reminders

Reporting
---------

1. Completely open-ended report engine.

2. Every field in the core component tables can be queried, filtered and
   exported.

Fault & Issue Tracking
----------------------

1. Integrated with the Projects and Task engine and therefore the timesheet
   system.

2. Escalation engine sends email to specified staff on inactivity/overdue
   status.

Document Management
-------------------

1. Project-level document attachments.

2. Task-level document attachments.

3. Customer-level document attachments.




How to Accomplish Common Tasks
==============================


How do I Log In?
----------------

.. figure:: images/login.png

   This is the allocPSA log in screen


In order to gain access to allocPSA, you will need the allocPSA administrator
to create an account for you, and to assign you a password. You can then enter
the Username and your Password in the login screen of allocPSA, as shown here.

When you point your web-browser to the URL which contains allocPSA, you
should see the Login screen. Enter your username and your password, then click
on the Login button. allocPSA should then take you to the main allocPSA Home
page. 



How do I Recover My Lost Password?
----------------------------------

.. figure:: images/forgot_pass.png

   If you've forgotten your password, have a new one sent to you..

If you have forgotten or misplaced your password, you are able to get allocPSA
to send you another password by clicking on the 'New Password' link, which will
bring up a form for you to supply details to.

allocPSA will only email you a password if you supply the same email address
and username in this form that have been specified previously for that
user in allocPSA.


How do I Logout?
----------------

There is a Logout link in the top right hand corner which will log you out
immediately.  For security reasons, allocPSA will automatically time-out your
login session, if you are inactive for a period of time. If you go out to
lunch etc. when you next come to us allocPSA, you will be presented with the
Login screen from above, and asked to re-authenticate. When you do so, you
will be taken straight to the page where you left off.


How do I Add New Users?
-----------------------

In order for your staff or personnel to use allocPSA, they will need accounts
on the system. To create an account, you follow these steps.

1. Log into allocPSA as an administrator.

2. From the action 'Quick List', located near the top right on the allocPSA
   toolbar at the top of the screen, select 'New Person'.

3. Fill in the form. At bare minimum, a username, password (+ password
   confirmation) and if your new user has special privileges, add them from the
   'Special Permissions' selection list. In general, for normal users, no special
   permissions need to be given.

4. Click the 'Save' button near the bottom.

5. If you know their skill-set, add this at the bottom of the form. Better yet,
   give them their account details, have them log in and let them update their
   skill sets.


How do I Create a New Project?
------------------------------

1. Log in to allocPSA

2. From the action 'Quick List' drop list on the allocPSA toolbar, select 'New
   Project'.

3. What you will see is the form you need to fill out to create this project's
   header. Once done, you can add additional project components.

4. If this project is for a client which hasn't been added in allocPSA
   beforehand, you will need to add that client. You can do this either by
   using the steps outlined in this section on Adding a New Client, or by
   clicking the 'New Client' link in the Project Details form, and following
   the same steps. 

5. Select the client contact for that client, for this project.

6. Choose the priority, status and type of project from the drop list, set the
   project's manager for timesheet purposes etc.

7. Press 'Save' button.

8. You are now able to add project comments, commissions, project resources,
   reminders, timesheets, attachments etc.


How do I Create a New Task?
---------------------------

1. Log in to allocPSA.

2. From the action Quick List on the allocPSA toolbar, select New Task.

3. What you see is the task header section of the form. Fill in this form,
   selecting from the droplists which project you want this task to belong to.

4. Click the Save button.

5. Your task header is now saved, and you can update the task with new
   comments, percentages complete etc.

6. You can always edit the task header (to change the name, start dates,
   resource allocation etc.) by clicking on the 'Edit' link at the
   task.


How do I Add an Appointment?
----------------------------

An appointment is actually a task with an optional reminder. We'll assume that
you have already created a new task which is a meeting with somebody at a
particular time and place. Then, an appointment is created by the following
steps.

1. Log in to allocPSA

2. Locate and click on the task that relates to the proposed meeting task on
   the 'Task Calendar'.

3. It is recommended that the task name should contain the contact person, the
   time and the place.

4. Click 'New Reminder' located on the 'Reminder' section of the task

5. Select the Date, Time, Recurring and Advanced notice needed according to
   your requirements of the meeting like location, dress code, the time
   required to arrive. I

6. Press 'Save' button

7. If you now go to the 'Task Calendar' of the 'Home' page again, you should
   find there is a new reminder for that meeting.

8. HINT: It is a good idea, when creating a meeting task, to give it a name
   which includes information about who/what/when and when. Here's an example:
   Meeting with Yvonne Smith (Partek Partners) to discuss support issues.
   Office, Tuesday, 10am'

How do I Add a Meeting Reminder?
--------------------------------

1. Log in to allocPSA

2. From the action Quick List drop list on the allocPSA toolbar, select 'New
   Reminder'

3. Choose the type of the reminder from the drop list. Four types of reminders
   are Client, Project, Task and General. Press 'Next' button after chosen

4. Choose which kind of task you are going to do from the drop list if your
   type of reminder is Client, Project, Task. And press 'Next' button

5. Fill in the form

6. Select the Date, Time, Recurring and Advanced notice according to your
   requirement of the meeting like dress code, the time required to arrive

7. Press 'Save' button.

How do I Re-Edit a Task's Name?
-------------------------------

1. Once a task header has been created, it is not normally available for
   editing. You can follow these steps to make the header accessible again.

2. Log in to allocPSA.

1. From the toolbar, select 'Tasks'.

2. Select the task you want to edit from the 'Task Summary' Table

3. HINT: You can filter out any unrelated tasks to locate the task you want
   from the list, if that task isn't visible near the top. You can also use
   your browser's Find facility, to locate any known part of the text of that
   task.

4. Click 'Edit' link on the top right hand concern

5. Edit the name or any other aspect of the task header.

6. Press 'Save' button at the bottom


How do I Delete a Task?
-----------------------

1. Log in to allocPSA.

2. From the toolbar, press 'Tasks'.

3. Select the task you want to delete from the 'Task Summary' list.

5. Press the 'Delete' button.

6. A dialog-box will appear asking you 'Are you sure to delete this record?',
   press 'OK' to confirm the deletion of the task.

How do I Create a New Timesheet?
--------------------------------

1. Log in to allocPSA.

2. From the action 'Quick List' drop list on the allocPSA toolbar, select 'New
   Time Sheet' link.

3. Choose the Project that this timesheet belongs to.

4. Fill in 'Billing Note' if any. This could be something like 'Send the
   invoice relating to this timesheet to the client before the end of the
   month or Internal billing only.

5. Press the 'Save' button to continue or 'Delete' to delete this Time Sheet.

6. Timesheets are made up of individual line items, pertaining to specific
   tasks. For instance, you may have worked for 3 hours on one problem (Task
   A), 2 hours on Task B and 1 hour on Task C, all for the one client.

7. For each timesheet line item, fill in Date, Duration, Task and Location.

8. Press the 'Add Time Sheet Item' button to add each new line item.

9. Repeat step 7 to add more line item entries if needed.

12. Press 'Time Sheet to Admin' button when done. An email will be sent off to the
    person designated as the next stop in the timesheet workflow process.

13. HINT: You can save the timesheet as-is, then return to it later on.

14. HINT: You can track the progress of your timesheets from the 'Timesheet'
    section of your 'Homepage'.

15. HINT: If you're a manager designated to receive requests to authorise
    timesheets, you can view them from the 'Timesheet' section of your
    'Homepage'.

How do I Authorise a Timesheet?
-------------------------------

You must be setup as a Project Manager + Time Sheet Recepient (on the project
screen) or be setup as the Tiem Sheet Admin on the Setup screen in order to
authorise timesheets.

1. Log in to allocPSA

2. Click 'admin' or 'manager' on 'Time Sheets Pending Your Approval' table
   which is located on the lower right side of the 'Home' page

3. If you're happy with the information contained on the timesheet, press the
   button to submit the Time Sheet to the next step in the workflow.

How do I Reject a Timesheet?
----------------------------

1. Log in to allocPSA

2. Click 'admin' or 'manager' on 'Time Sheets Pending Your Approval' table
   which is located on the lower right side of the 'Home' page

3. If you perceive that there is a problem with the timesheet, then add a
   comment in the note field specifying what the originator should do to fix
   then re-submit the timesheet, then press the '<-Back' button on the
   timesheet (not the web-browser's Back button). An email will be sent to the
   previous person in the Time Sheet workflow.

How do I Find Client Information?
---------------------------------

1. Log into allocPSA.

2. From the toolbar, select the 'Clients' tab.

3. Choose the status of the client you want to find, by default 'Current' is
   set.

4. You now have two options. You can select the first letter of the client
   organisation's name and be shown a list of clients starting with that name.

5. Alternatively, you can type the part of the client organisation's name in
   the 'Name Containing' text box, then press the 'Filter' button.

6. A list of clients matching the criteria is shown.

7. HINT: You can also use your browser's Find facility, to locate any known
   part of the text of client's information.

8. HINT: If the Client's name begins with a number or other, non-alphabetical
   letter, then they will be listed under the 'A' filter list.

9. HINT: If you're looking at the list of Clients, you can send email to their
   primary contact, assuming that one exists and they have an email address
   listed in allocPSA, by clicking on their email address as shown in the
   Client listing page.

10. HINT: If you're presently in any particular Client's page, you can send
    email to any of the contacts by clicking on their email address (once
    again, assuming they have one) as shown in the Client contact page.

How do I Add Client Information?
--------------------------------

1. Log in to allocPSA.

2. From the action 'Quick List' drop list on the allocPSA toolbar, select 'New
   Client'.

3. You will be presented with the Client record information header. This
   contains the information which pertains to that Client organisation, such as
   central phone and fax numbers, physical and mail addresses etc.

4. Fill in the details of the Client.

5. Press 'Add' button.

6. You are now able to attach as many Contacts to this Client record
   information header as you want.

7. To do so, fill in the first 'Add New Contact' sub-form.

8. Press 'Add' button.

9. If you have add more than one Contact person, and want to make one of them
   to the primary contact person, use the 'Make Primary Contact' button
   associated with that Contact.

10. If you want to add any Client-level comments, you can do so via the
    'Comment' text area.

11. Furthermore, if you want to add a document (such as a contract, agreement,
    photo, database etc.) related to the Client, you could press 'Browse' from
    the 'Files' section to select a file from your computer, then press the
    'Save Document' to upload and store it.

Some Useful Tips on Using allocPSA
==================================

Firstly, remember that allocPSA is a web-based application. As such, all the
normal behaviour that you would expect from a web-browser functions correctly
in allocPSA. Therefore, 

1. When you are viewing a page which is larger than the web-browser window, you
   can always scroll down (and up) with the scrollbar or Page Up or Page Down
   on your keyboard.

2. You can print a whole (or part) page to any printer your workstation has
   been configured to use, at any time, just like you would print a web-page.

3. You can find any piece of text in a page by using your browser's page Find
   function (often a Ctrl + F keystroke or available from the Edit menu)

4. You can save the complete contents of a page to a file, for later review, by
   using your browser's Save Page As... function (often a Ctrl + S keystroke or
   available from the Edit menu)

5. You can trace your steps back to any specific point that you have been
   during this session, by using your browser's Back button (or function, often
   accessed via a Ctrl + Left Keyboard Arrow)

6. You can establish specific browser Bookmarks for particular, commonly used
   projects, tasks or function pages in allocPSA

7. You can (with some care) send others within your organisation the current
   web-browser address (i.e. URL) of a particularly interesting page in
   allocPSA that you want them to see. 

8. Your organisation can make some parts of allocPSA available to outsiders,
   via an extranet system, which may help them better understand how their
   project with your firm is progressing.

A note on dates in allocPSA

As this system is intended for use in multiple countries, it has been designed
to work with International Standards Organisation (ISO) standard dates, which
are in the format of YYYY-MM-DD. Thus the 1st of November, 2002 is displayed as
2002-11-01.

A note on viewing levels and privileges
---------------------------------------

allocPSA has a strict notion of what functions are visible and permissible to
various user levels. While this manual describes all functions which are
available, some (or many) may not be visible to users who do not have the
appropriate access privileges.




allocPSA Tab Menu
=================

The tab menu in allocPSA is at the top of every page of the application.
It is very important that you become familiar with it, as it is perhaps the
most often used component of the allocPSA application. From this tab bar, you
will be able to jump directly to almost all of the main application modules
(Home, Projects, Clients, Tasks, Finances, etc.) There is also a search
facility with which you will be able to look for almost all important data-sets
archived in allocPSA. Finally, there is also an Quick List, from which,
you will be able to create new Tasks, Project, Client entries, as well as see a
list of recently visited pages of the allocPSA application.


Home
----

The Home page is a convenient one-stop spot for you to determine the status of
your tasks, calendar, cost-centre(s), pending work items, messages, timesheets
and any organisation-wide announcements that have been made. For really simple
usage, can operate much of allocPSA from the main screen; many of the other
top-level screens are often function-specific enhancements of the Home screen.

Top Tasks
~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/top_tasks.png

   The highest priority tasks are arranged according to their urgency by a formula

**How It Works**

This section shows you view the top five tasks which have been allocated to
you. allocPSA uses a weighted formula to determine which of your tasks should
ranked at the top, based on the task, phase and project priority, percentage
complete, target completion etc.

**How To Use**

The tasks should be listed with the task title (or name), the project that the
task belongs to, and the completion status (for example overdue for
completion). Click the task title (or name) and you will be taken to the
content of that task.


Calendar
~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/calendar.png

   The calendar show the tasks, reminders and absences

**How It Works**

The Calendar will show you a date-centric view of the current week, fortnight,
month etc. Tasks which are due to begin or finish which fall on specific days,
will be shown in here, as well as any Reminders which have been set up or
Absences which are scheduled.

**How To Use**

You can view the details of any single task by clicking on that task. You can
modify the the date-range shown within the calendar by clicking on the single
or multi-week options shown. Only your tasks are shown in the calendar. As with
all other parts of allocPSA, you can print this page, including your full
calendar, to any printer configured on your workstation. You can create new
tasks, reminders or absences by clicking on any of the three icons that are in
the top-left hand corner of each day in the calendar.

Project List
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/project_list.png

   The table above listed all the new projects belonging to their corresponding clients

**How It Works**

allocPSA allows for the management of Projects, among other things. Within your
Home page, allocPSA shows projects which are allocated to you, the user. The
list shows you the Client that the project belongs to, which can be an internal
client, within your organisation, or an external client. 

**How To Use**

The Project name, which you can click on to jump to that particular project, a
link to the list of Tasks for that particular project, as well as link to the
Task Graph, for a that project.

For more information, please refer to the 'Project' section.




Cost Centres & TF (Tagged Fund)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

allocPSA uses the concept of Cost Centres (called Tagged Funds or just TFs) to
show the maintain and track the financial state of each Project's or Person's
accounts. 

As a Professional Services Automation system, allocPSA must keep track of both
the expenses and revenues of a project as well as cost-centres for individual
consultants and resources. It does so with a form of cost centre called a
tagged fund (TF for short). In this home page view, a user will be shown
their own personal cost centre account balance, as well as the present balance
of any projects they have been allocated to oversee financially.

**How To Use**

Click the account name you want to view in greater detail, and you will be
taken to that account. The account information page is described in detail
elsewhere in this document, but suffice to say that it displays and behaves
very much like an online bank account statement, with money being debited and
credited for any number of other accounts and source, reflecting the generation
and processing of timesheets, billable hours, expense forms and financial
injections from external systems like invoicing etc.

Current Timesheets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

allocPSA allows users to submit timesheets allocated to specific projects or
consultancy jobs. The list of timesheets shown in the Home page is the list of
timesheets which are presently still being edited or worked on by the user. In
other words, they are in progress.

**How To Use**

Click the link of the time sheet status to enter into the current
timesheet.

Customize Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

The appearance and font-size of allocPSA can be changed to suit the user's taste. 
Additionally the Top Tasks, Calendar and Project List on the home page can be
customized to individual preference.

**How To Use**

Settings can be changed by making a selection from the respective
drop-lists. When satisfied, press the 'Save' button to confirm the changes. 


Clients
-------

.. figure:: images/client_list.png

   List(s) of current, potential and archived clients are
   shown in the Clients section of allocPSA

**How It Works**

All Professional Services Organisations (PSO) have a notion of clients. This
normally includes all main companies and organisations that the PSO has contact
with. allocPSA has the ability to track all current, potential and archived
(i.e. lapsed) clients. Besides the core organisational information, any number
of contacts can also be entered for each organisation tracked. The information
maintained includes the Client Name, Contact Name, Contact Phone, Contact
E-mail etc. 

allocPSA also allows for the attachment of documents which pertain to this
client, as well as any per-client reminders that need to be added.

**How To Use**

To view the list of current clients, you need to click on the 'Client' link in
the allocPSA toolbar. You will then be taken to the Client module, where you
will be shown a table of current clients. You can view and edit details for
each client, by clicking on that client's link. 

Hint: When allocPSA lists the list of current client's, you can use your
browser's Find facility (often a Ctrl + F keystroke or available from the Edit
menu) to find any piece of text in this page. Thus, if you know that the
surname of the contact that you want is Purcell, you can quickly locate this
contact and jump straight to that contact's details on this client list page.

If you want to view the list of Potential clients, you can change the drop-list
which specifies client type, and press the 'Filter' button. The same process
can be used to list All or Archived clients.

Hint: If you have nominated a primary contacts for a Client, then that primary
contact's details will be shown in the client listing. If those details include
an email address, that email address will be hyperlinked, so that you can click
on it to send that person mail, straight from within your mail client.  You
will note that much like Task and Project forms, the Client forms have a header
component, as well as the body or main component. The header is used to store
information for the company or organisation which is common to all of the
contacts, such as headquarters address details, main switch and fax number.

.. figure:: images/client.png

   Each Client record is defined as a client organisation
   detail header and any number of contacts, reminders, documents, comments
   etc.

.. figure:: images/client_contact.png

   For each Client you can have as many contacts as you liked.
   You can designate one of these to be the Primary, which will make it then
   show up in the Client list.

Adding a Primary Contact to a Client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The body of the client form consists of as many contacts as you care to add.
There's no real limit. Further, you can specify which of the contacts is the
primary contact. This will be the person whose details will appear in the main
Client page table list of clients and the contacts. You can also specify each
contacts specific particulars, such as their personal contact numbers,
mobile/cell-phone numbers, email addresses, as well as their physical address,
if this is different from the main address listed in the client header record
(perhaps they work from a branch-office.)

Adding Notes to a Client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/client_comment.png

   Add as many free-form comments as you need to a Client record.

allocPSA provides the facility to add client-level status notes to your
project. To do so, simply add text into the 'New Comment' field and click on
the 'Save Comment' button. You can review any existing comments by selecting
them from the comments list, and also update and delete them when they are in
view.

Adding Documents to a Client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/client_upload.png

   You can upload documents like images, database files, contracts, etc.


allocPSA allows you to add electronic documents to a Client's record These
documents could be contracts, letters, scanned images, business-plans, or
database files. All forms of electronic document are supported (PDF files,
ASCII, HTML, all graphics files, MS Word, Powerpoint, Excel and OpenOffice.org
to name but a few.) These documents are then displayed in a list on the
project page, and can be downloaded or viewed very easily and quickly.
Further, if your web-browser is able to, it will either display the uploaded
document within the browser, or launch a helper application to display the
document on screen, which greatly facilitates easy retrieval and viewing.

To add a document to the project document 'tree', you can click on the 'Choose'
button which is visible on the Client page. This will bring up a File
Open-style dialog box (depending on your web-browser) with which you can
navigate to the document that you want to upload to allocPSA's document
repository. When you have selected the file you want to upload, and are back to
allocPSA's Project page, you should see the file path specified in the
file-upload textbox. You can then click the 'Save Document' button, and your
web-browser will upload the file to allocPSA. This process may take a moment,
particularly if you have a large file. 

Adding Reminders to Clients
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can add a new reminder to the client project (rather than to just a
specific task) by clicking on the 'Add Reminder' link on the Client page.

.. figure:: images/new_reminder.png

   Remainders can even be linked to clients

Reminders are a wonderfully useful facility in allocPSA. They can be set within
the context of a Client, rather than a project or task.

Modifying Client Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you need to modify the Client header information:

1. Click the 'Client Name'.

2. Click the 'Edit Client Details' button to modify the Client header details
   such as name, address etc.

3. Click on the 'Save' button.

4. You can also modify the content you want to change or add for the other
   parts, and press appropriate 'Save' or 'Add' buttons


Projects
--------

.. figure:: images/project.png

   A project's header information.

**How It Works**

A Project is a logical entity which is constituted by one or more
people/resources/personnel working on one or more tasks. Most Professional
Services firms have very specific examples of what constitutes a project. It
might be implementing a new computer system for their own use or for a Client.
It might be in the production of a report, or the development of a new device
or item of software. allocPSA is very flexible in terms of how it handles the
concept of a project, and how the life-cycle of a project is handled in your
organisation.

Much like a task, a Project has a header component, which is not likely to
change that frequently. Within this header component are informational details
about a the project, including the project's name, who the Client is,
project-specific details about the Client's contact person, a number of start
and finish dates, along with project budget details, project manager (for
timesheet sign off purposes) and a project modification history. 

Once the header has been defined and saved, you will be able to set any
per-project assignment of Commission (used for tracking revenues to account
managers of salespeople within your firm.) You can also establish which
resources/personnel are assigned to work on this project. Unless a resource is
assigned to a project, they will not be able to view it or its attendant tasks
and phases (unless they have manager security privileges.) When establishing
the staff resources who will work on this project, you can also specify what
their charge rates are to be. 

allocPSA allows for the flexible management of in-house per-project rates, as
well as externally charged rates which then bring revenues into particular
staff, project or departmental cost-centres (known as Tagged Funds or TFs).

allocPSA also allows you to upload (and attach) any type of electronic document
to this project's repository, as well as establish project-specific Reminders.

**How To Use**

The header information which can be specified, is listed below:

.. list-table::

   - - Field
     - Attributes
   - - Name
     - The name of this particular Project. Provide a name which is reasonably
       memorable clearly understandable and readable . Doesn't matter if it's a
       little long.
   - - Short Name
     - If the project Name is long and can be contracted or acronymised,
       provide a short name for easy reference here.
   - - Comments
     - A detail account of what this Project is all about This makes it easy
       for new resource to quickly get up to speed with the project, and can
       help staff who are on dozens of similar projects quickly identify the
       aims and deliverables of this particular project.
   - - Priority
     - Specify a priority (used for prioritisation sorting.) Level 1 is the
       highest priority in allocPSA
   - - Status
     - Which should be either Current, Potential or Archived. Only Current
       projects are displayed by default to users of allocPSA. Potential
       projects are still being pitched for, and Archived projects are
       available for review, but aren't active.
   - - Type
     - Which should be either Contract, Job or Project. Most Professional
       Services firms perform work on either a Contract (support contract,
       long-term ongoing work or staff on-site basis), Job (short term work or
       consultancy) or Project (multi-person, with specified beginning, middle
       and end, and more likely to be fixed cost and on a timeline with
       milestones and deliverables.) If you select a Project, allocPSA
       establishes a number of boilerplate phases, which you can use, extend or
       delete as you deem fit. 
   - - Client
     - The name of the Client which may have already been added to allocPSA's
       Client database, or ,if new, can be added by clicking "New Client".
       Remember, many projects and jobs are for internal clients. As such, your
       internal clients should be added in allocPSA's Client database too,
   - - Phone
     - The contact phone number of the Client's representative. 
   - - Contact name
     - The Client's contact representative. This is on a per-project basis,
       which may be different from the main contact(s) listed in the Client
       database.
   - - E-mail
     - The e-mail address of the Client's contact representative.
   - - Address
     - The postal or street address of the Client's contact representative.
   - - Mobile
     - The mobile/cell phone number of the Client's contact representative.
   - - Target Start
     - The estimated date you plan to start the Project
   - - Actual Start
     - The actual date you started the Project
   - - Target Completion
     - The estimated date you plan to finish the Project
   - - Actual Completion
     - The actual date you finished the Project
   - - Project Budget $
     - You can set the Project Budget amount here using different currency such
       as AUD, USD, NZD, CAD etc. This figure is used to determine the
       percentage of project budget which has presently been spent, which is a
       useful metric for project managers and the professional service firm's
       management. For example, if only half the project has been completed,
       and 60%of the budget has been spent thus far, there are likely to be
       budget constraint or blow-out problems further down the track.
   - - Time Sheets to Manager
     - If this is a project which requires timesheet authorisation from an
       internal manager (i.e. project manager) then this manager can be
       specified here.
   - - Cost Centre TF
     - If this project has an associated project cost-centre, either
       specifically established for the purposes and life-cycle of this
       project, or a more generic one, to be used by multiple projects which
       are thematically linked, this cost-centre can be specified here.
   - - Through an Agency
     - If a 3rd party external services firm, system integrator, partner or
       agency is to be billed for this work, and there are financial systems
       in-place to handle this timesheeted transaction separately (for example
       superannuation or payroll expenses), then this check box should be
       selected.

After you have finished all the details:

1. Press the 'Save' button to create your new project and then proceed to add
   resources to the project, add specifications for commission etc., or you can

2. Click the link 'Return to Project List' button to return to the Projects
   page when finished, or you can

3. You can also edit and update the project header information, adding new
   comments for Modification History, Commission To, Project People, uploading
   Project Files, creating a New Task, adding Reminders or generating New
   Timesheets, Transactions.

A project is constituted by one or more people/resource undertaking numerous
tasks. Tasks can be active (i.e. not-complete) or archived (i.e. completed).
Normally, allocPSA's Project page will only show you the current (i.e. active
and non-complete) task list. You can elect to see the complete task list, or
the project's Task Graph or the Task Allocation Report. A project will also
allow you to specify people/staff/resource, commissions and attach documents,
which we will see how to manage later on.

Adding Notes to your Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

allocPSA provides the facility to add project-level modification history notes
to your project. To do so, simply add text into the New Comment field and click
on the 'Save Comment' button. You can review any existing comments by selecting
them from the comments list, and also update and delete them when they are in
view.

Project Sales Commission
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In many professional services organisations, sales commissions are often
allocated for the business development efforts. In allocPSA, these sales
commissions are tracked on a per-project basis. Each project has the facility
for the project's owner to establish one or more staff/resources from your
organisation, who will receive the sales commission. To add a percentage
commission to a specified staff member, select their name from the drop-list at
left, then add the 'Commission %' in the text-box, then click on the 'Add'
button. This will add that staff member as a commission holder in this project.
You can add more staff-members as commission-holders by following this simple
procedure.


Adding Staff Resource to your Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/project_people.png

   The people/resource related to the project can be added or deleted according to your need

You can add as many people/resource to your project as you wish. To do so,
simply move the page down to the 'Project People' segment of the project form,
which may show existing resources who have been added to the project. You will
note that the last-most row (also possibly the first row, if only one row
exists) of the resource entries has a blank selected in the 'Person' drop-list.
You can select the person you wish to add, the type of email notifications they
will receive for this project: none, only for tasks assigned to them, and if
this person is the project's manager, perhaps for all project tasks.

Complete Task List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

This shows the total list of existing tasks for this particular project. Even
completed (i.e. archived) tasks are shown.

**How To Use**

To view this list, click on the 'Tasks' link in the project you are in. You
will be shown a (possibly long) list of tasks, which you can click on
individually, to view and edit. You can always return to the normal project
view by clicking the Back button on your browser or clicking on the
'Project' link at top.

Task Graph - Project Task Summary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

This is like the Complete Task List, but also includes a graphical
representation of the timeline of the Tasks and Phases, as well as a list of
the existing tasks for this particular project. It can be used as a very simple
facsimile of a Gantt chart for planning purposes. As with all things in
allocPSA, you will always able to print this page to any printers you have
configured to work from our workstation. 

**How To Use**

To view this list, click on the 'Graph' link in the project you are in.
You will be shown a (possibly) large graph with coloured lines, and a
(possibly) long list of tasks, which you can click on individually, to view and
edit.

The graph shows dates and the names of the tasks and phases along the left-hand
side. There are 8 separate pieces of information shown on the graph, including
the:

.. list-table::

   - - Field
     - Attributes
   - - Target Task Period
     - The Target Task Period is a period of time you set for the task
       completion, from start to finish.
   - - Actual Task Period
     - The Actual Task Period is the actual time you use to complete that
       particular task, from start to finish.
   - - Forecast Task Period
     - When the progress for a particular task or phase tending beyond today's
       date, the system will automatically calculate the completion date as
       well as the period for your task completion, based on percentage
       complete estimates, the date duration spent thus far, and the number of
       hours allocated to this task.
   - - Start Date (completion date not known)
     - This is a right-heading triangle showing the starting date of the task
       or phase which has no completion date set. Therefore no target, actual
       and forecast period will be shown.
   - - Completion Date (start date not known)
     - This is a left-heading triangle showing the completion date of the task
       or phase without any start date having been set. Again, no target,
       actual and forecast period will be shown.
   - - Target Phase Period
     - The Target Phase Period is a period of time you set for the entire phase
       completion. It uses the dates established within its child tasks to
       determine these dates.
   - - Actual Phase Period
     - The Actual Phase Period is the actual time you use to complete the
       entire phase. . It uses the dates established within its child tasks to
       determine these dates.
   - - Forecast Phase Period
     - When the progress for a particular task or phase tending beyond today's
       date, the system will automatically calculate the completion date as
       well as the period for your phase completion. allocPSA will attempt to
       mathematically estimate the forecast completion phase period based on
       the time and percentage complete estimates supplied within its child
       tasks.

The project's phases and tasks are then shown in a list below the graph. The
child tasks of any parent task or phase are shown indented below that parent.
Clicking on any of these will bring it to the screen.



Task Allocation Report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

This report works in a manner very similar to the Task Graph. The difference
being that each individual user/resource's allocation of tasks are listed and
displayed in their own separate graphs. You can use this report to determine
where possible overload work situations might arise for specific
people/resources on your projects.

**How To Use**

To view this list, click on the 'Allocation' link in the project you are
in. You will be shown one or more large graphs with coloured lines, and a
possibly long list of tasks, which you can click on individually, to view and
edit.

Each allocPSA user/resource/personnel who has been allocated to this project,
has their graph and list of tasks.

The graph shows the dates along the top, and the names of the tasks and phases
along the left-hand side. There are 8 separate pieces of information shown on
the graphs, including the:

.. list-table::

   - - Field
     - Attributes
   - - Target Task Period
     - The Target Task Period is a period of time you set for the task
       completion, from start to finish.
   - - Actual Task Period
     - The Actual Task Period is the actual time you use to complete that
       particular task, from start to finish.
   - - Forecast Task Period
     - When the progress for a particular task or phase tending beyond today's
       date, the system will automatically calculate the completion date as
       well as the period for your task completion, based on percentage
       complete estimates, the date duration spent thus far, and the number of
       hours allocated to this task.
   - - Start Date (completion date not known)
     - This is a right-heading triangle showing the starting date of the task
       or phase which has no completion date set. Therefore no target, actual
       and forecast period will be shown
   - - Completion Date (start date not known)
     - This is a left-heading triangle showing the completion date of the task
       or phase without any start date having been set. Again, no period shown
   - - Target Phase Period
     - The Target Phase Period is a period of time you set for the entire phase
       completion. It uses the dates established within its child tasks to
       determine these dates.
   - - Actual Phase Period
     - The Actual Phase Period is the actual time you use to complete the
       entire phase. . It uses the dates established within its child tasks to
       determine these dates.
   - - Forecast Phase Period
     - When the progress for a particular task or phase tending beyond today's
       date, the system will automatically calculate the completion date as
       well as the period for your phase completion. allocPSA will attempt to
       mathematically estimate the forecast completion phase period based on
       the time and percentage complete estimates supplied within its child
       tasks.

The project's phases and tasks for each specific user/resource are then shown
in a list below the graph. The child tasks of any parent task or phase are
shown indented below that parent. Clicking on any of these will bring it to the
screen.


List of the Current Uncompleted Tasks in a Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Either from within a project or from the Tasks view, you can drill down into
those tasks for a particular project which are still not complete. These tasks
may be tracking well or may be overdue. When overdue, allocPSA will flag them
in a brighter colour for obvious recognition.




New Task
~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/task_detail.png

   When adding new tasks, you first create the task header
   itself, which specifies the task name, initial description of the task,
   start, end dates, estimated hours work etc.

**How It Works**

Allows you to create a new Task for this particular project.

**How To Use**

Whenever you are in a project, and can see the 'New Task' link, click on it to
be presented with a blank new task screen, which you can then complete, and
submit as per normal. Any tasks created in this manner will automatically
belong to the project you are currently viewing.

Adding Reminders to Projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can add a new reminder to the project (rather than to just a specific task
or client) by clicking on the New Reminder link on the project page

Reminders are a wonderfully useful facility in allocPSA. They can be set
globally, within the context of a Project (so that they cease being sent when
the project is complete,) and within the context of a task, (so that they cease
being sent when that task or its parent project is complete.) You can set
reminders for yourself, for other resources working on the project, or for the
whole project team together (for example, to remind everyone of a project
meeting, or of a weekly timesheet submission policy.)



Uploading Documents to Projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

allocPSA allows you to add electronic documents to a Project. These could be
specification documents, scanned images of signed contracts or manuals. All
forms of electronic document are supported (PDF files, ASCII, HTML, all
graphics files, MS Word, Powerpoint, Excel, MDF files and OpenOffice to name
but a few.) These documents are then displayed in a list on the project page,
and can be downloaded or viewed very easily and quickly. Further, if your
web-browser is able to, it will either display the uploaded document within the
browser, or launch a help application to display the document on screen, which
greatly facilitates easy retrieval and viewing.

To add a document to the project document 'tree', you can click on the 'Browse'
button which is visible on the Project page. This will bring up a File
Open-style dialog box (depending on your web-browser) with which you can
navigate to the document that you want to upload to allocPSA's document
repository. When you have selected the file you want to upload, and are back to
allocPSA's Project page, you should see the file path specified in the
file-upload textbox. You can then click the 'Save Document' button, and your
web-browser will upload the file to allocPSA. This process may take a moment,
particularly if you have a large file. 



Adding a Timesheet to a Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In most services organisations, timesheets are used to co-ordinate the billing
(internally or externally) of staff/resource times and for paying of
staff/resources. As a user of allocPSA who is also entitled to submit
timesheets against a project (and correspondingly, against the cost-centre
associated with that project,) you can to create timesheets from within the
project in question. Any timesheets which are created in this manner are
automatically attached to the current project. See the Timesheets section for
further details on how to create and manage timesheets.

Project Expense Forms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you need to raise a project-specific expense, you can create those expenses
with allocPSA's Expense Form (described later in this manual.) All such
expenses will appear on your project's Transactions section.



Tasks
-----

.. figure:: images/task.png

   A task can have its specific details, reminders and comments

**How It Works**

A Task is a unit of work or a work requirement which needs to be accomplished.
Tasks normally relate to specific Projects. Tasks normally have start and
finish dates. Most tasks are normally allocated to one specific user (i.e. a user
resource in project management parlance). Tasks can have associated
descriptions, as well as priorities, and can be part of other Tasks or of
Phases. Tasks can also have a number of user created comments, which can
provide a running history of the task.

A task can have Reminders associated with it which can be set to email the
specified owner of the task, or others within that project, on certain dates
and at certain times.

Once a task has been completed, it can be marked off as 100% done. It will then
be archived within the Project, available in a Complete Task List, but not
shown in the normal operational view of the project. This reduces the overall
clutter.

A Phase is a special kind of Task, whose primary purpose is to contain other
tasks. Examples of a phases might be 'Documentation' or 'Testing' or 'Planning'
or 'Contract Negotiation'. There is generally little different between a task
and a phase, except that a phase will be displayed differently in the Task
List when doing a 'List by Project'.

Special Tasks: Faults
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In allocPSA a fault is a special kind of task which exhibits particular
behaviour with respect to the automatic setting of reminders for the Person to
which the fault has been assigned, and to the Project's Manager (if any) listed
in the Project in which this fault was attached to, as a form of safety-net
escalation mechanism. 

While allocPSA does not purport to be a full Service Desk solution, the
tracking of faults as part of the overall system framework provides quite a
powerful system for companies which provide service-level support to track,
manage, filter and archive any issues or problems which arise in the day-to-day
operation of any services organisation. 

NOTE: Only if appropriate email addresses have been configured for the
Project's Manager or the Person to whom the fault is assigned, will there be
any email notification possible.

Special Tasks: Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In allocPSA, a message is a special kind of task which exhibits particular
behaviour with respect to the automatic sending of the message via an email, as
well as the setting of email reminders for the Person to which the message has
been directed to, and to the Manager (if any) listed in the Project in which
this message was associated with, as a form of safety-net escalation mechanism. 

Normally, in most offices, a majority of messages would be pasted onto a desk
or computer screen by way of a sticky-note, or perhaps sent as a one off email.
Use the message-task facility in allocPSA when you want to ensure that the
Person to whom you are sending this message to needs to sign-off on the task,
or that if they task is not signed-off in a reasonable limit of time (as
dictated by the Priority of the message) that an email will be sent to an
administrator or the Project's Manager. 

NOTE: Only if appropriate email addresses have been configured for the
Project's Manager or the Person to whom the message is directed to, will there
be any email notification possible.

Tasks in allocPSA have a number of view. When creating a new task, you will be
presented with a view which primarily shows the header information. Once this
is saved, and from that point on, viewing that task should show you the normal
operational view of the task, with much of the header information now made
read-only. 

You can now process the task through its normal workflow, by adding comments
upon each atomic action of the tasks history, updating the percentage complete
and eventually closing the task off when it's been fully realised or judged
complete. Finally, you can view a task with its full details displayed on
screen at once (referred to as the printer-friendly view, as its the most
conducive to grabbing a hard-copy snapshot of the task in totality.



**How To Use**

.. figure:: images/task_detail.png

   Task header, allowing you to specify the project, task name, description, interested parties and dates.

Tasks have two editable views. The first view is the header view, where you can
establish a number of attributes which are normally immutable (or change rather
infrequently.) The header view shows only a limited subset of all the
information which is normally associated with a task. Once you have supplied
whatever information you have and ensured that the task has a name, you should
then be able to Save the header component, and allocPSA will then take this
information and display it in read-only form, while opening a number of new
attributes which you can now set or change. You may always re-enable editing of
the task header, by clicking on the 'Edit' link at the top of any
fully-specified task. 

If you are creating a New Task, or are updating a task, you may see any of the following data fields:

.. list-table::

   - - Field
     - Attributes
   - - Name
     - The name of this particular Task. Provide a name which is reasonably
       memorable, descriptive and readable
   - - Description
     - A full account of what this Task is about. Provide as much detail as you
       can.
   - - Project
     - Which Project is this Task associated with. 
       Normally left to the default (current) Project, but can be assigned to
       any other Project
   - - Parent Task
     - Select a parent task (or phase) if this particular task is a sub-task.
   - - Priority
     - Specify a priority (used for prioritisation sorting.) Level 1 is the
       highest priority in allocPSA
   - - Assigned to
     - The Person Responsible is the user who is tasked with undertaking this Task
   - - Task Type
     - Select a task type; task, phase, message or fault. A phase is handled
       much the same as a task, but displayed in different colour in charts.
       Messages and faults are handled differently, and establish reminders for
       service level escalation etc. etc., so as to be handled in a timely
       manner.  Some tasks or phases are (or have) milestones. For example,
       code releases or document deliverables. As such, they need to be clearly
       displayed as important date-points in online graphs. Setting a milestone
       for this task will result in a special vertical bar to be drawn in the
       project Graph .
   - - Interested Parties
     - allocPSA allows you to specify which other members of the project (which
       the task belongs to) as well as any Client contacts listed for the
       nominated project Client, should be included in automated emails which
       are sent. This is a great way to keep a whole team of in-house and
       external resource briefed on the task status.  NOTE: Naturally, your and
       your staff need to be mindful of what messages are sent to these
       external resources.
   - - Time Estimate (Hours)
     - Time estimated to finish this Task. It is measured in terms of hour
       units. This figure helps allocPSA produce project timeline estimates and
       forecasts. It does not need to be the same as the final time effort
       which results in an entry in a Timesheet.
   - - Percent Complete
     - This is an autocalculated field bases on the Estimated Hours versus the
       Hours that have actually been billed against this task in the time
       sheet section.
   - - Dates
     - The date of action. It is automatically recorded when you get into this page
   - - Target Start
     - The estimated date you plan to start the Task. Click on the button at
       right to automatically enter today's date. For International reasons and
       to minimise date-format errors, allocPSA uses ISO date format of
       YYYY-MM-DD. Therefore, the 1st of September 2002 is 2002-09-01
   - - Actual Start
     - The actual date you started the Task . Click on the button at right to
       automatically enter today's date. For International reasons and to
       minimise date-format errors, allocPSA uses ISO date format of
       YYYY-MM-DD. Therefore, the 1st of September 2002 is 2002-09-01
   - - Target Completion
     - The estimated date you plan to finish the Task. Click on the button at
       right to automatically enter today's date. For International reasons and
       to minimise date-format errors, allocPSA uses ISO date format of
       YYYY-MM-DD. Therefore, the 1st of September 2002 is 2002-09-01
   - - Actual Completion
     - The actual date you finished the Task . Click on the button at right to
       automatically enter today's date. For International reasons and to
       minimise date-format errors, allocPSA uses ISO date format of
       YYYY-MM-DD. Therefore, the 1st of September 2002 is 2002-09-01

Fill in all the information needed, then press the 'Save' button to create this
new task. You will then be shown the normal editable task view which is used
for normal operations on, and updating of tasks. In general, the header, or top
part of the task wouldn't need to be modified, but additions can be made to the
task by way of Comments. You can now add such Comment updates (as they arise)
to this task, and change the percentage complete status where necessary.

You can add as many comments as you like. All comments will be stamped for
date-time and username. You can also edit (or delete) a comment after it has
been saved, by selecting it from the comments list to display it in the
comments edit box, then updating or deleting it. 


Adding Reminders to Tasks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/new_reminder.png

   Add reminders for you and other members of the project.

Reminders are a wonderfully useful facility in allocPSA. They can be set
globally, within the context of a Project (so that they cease being sent when
the project is complete,) and within the context of a task, (so that they cease
being sent when the project is complete.) You can set reminders for yourself,
for other resources working on the project, or for the whole project team
together (for example, to remind everyone of a project meeting, or of a weekly
timesheet submission policy.) 

Closing a Task When Complete
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once you have finished all aspects of a task, you are able to mark it
complete.  To do this, enter a date for Actual Completion. 


Time
----

.. figure:: images/timeSheet_new.png

.. figure:: images/timeSheet_items.png

   Once you've created the timesheet header, you can add as
   many items from the project to that timesheet. You can also add comments,
   which will then be added to the task comment list, and optionally displayed
   with the printed version of the timesheet, if not marked private.

**How It Works**

The timesheet system in allocPSA allows for creation and management of
timesheets by users. This timesheet system is built around a workflow model
which is established as a 'factory default' when allocPSA is first installed.
This model works as follows. 

1. Timesheets are created by staff/personnel/resources who have accounts in
   allocPSA

2. Once the timesheet has been created and tasks and hours have been added to
   it, it can be sent to the next person in the workflow queue.

3. Who this next person is depends on a number of factors and default rulesets
   established in the ruleset and configuration of allocPSA when it's
   installed.

4. By default, if the Project in which the timesheet was created in has a
   Timesheet Manager specified, then the timesheet will get routed to that
   manager. An email will also be sent to that manager to notify of a pending
   timesheet.

5. If this manager verifies all the data and times in the timesheet, they can
   elect to send it onwards to the administrative officer, nominally the staff
   member who handles office or financial administration. An email will also be
   sent to that administrative officer to notify of a pending timesheet

6. If the manager disputes any of the details in the timesheet, the manager can
   add a notice in the timesheet, and elect to send it back to the user who
   created the timesheet for its rectification and re-submission.

7. If no Timesheet Manager is specified within the project, then the timesheet
   will automatically be routed to the user who has been specified in the
   configuration of allocPSA as the administrative officer, nominally the staff
   member who handles office or financial administration. An email will also be
   sent to that administrative officer to notify of a pending timesheet

8. If the administrative officer disputes any of the details in the timesheet,
   the administrative officer can add a notice in the timesheet, and elect to
   send it back to the user who created the timesheet for its rectification and
   re-submission.

**How To Use**

Adding New Timesheet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. From the action 'Quick List' drop list on the allocPSA toolbar, select 'New
   Time Sheet' link.

2. Choose the Project that this timesheet belongs to.

3. Some sites offer their staff a direct payment for timesheets, rather than
   waiting for invoices to be paid. In allocPSA this is classified as 'Payment
   Insurance'. Select this if your site offers this facility.

4. Fill in 'Billing Note' if any. This could be something like 'Send the
   invoice relating to this timesheet to the client before the end of the
   month or Internal billing only.

5. Press the 'Save' button to continue or 'Delete Record' to remove any data
   added.

6. Timesheets are made up of individual line items, pertaining to specific
   tasks. For instance, you may have worked for 3 hours on one problem (Task
   A), 2 hours on Task B and 1 hour on Task C, all for the one client.

7. For each timesheet line item, fill in Date, Duration, Task and Location.

8. HINT: If the task you need to link a timesheet line item to doesn't exist
   yet, you can create it by clicking on the 'New Task' link.

9. Press the 'Add' button to add each new item.

10. Repeat step 7 to add more line item entries if needed.

11. Press 'Save and Submit' button when done. An email will be sent off to the
    person designated as the next stop in the timesheet workflow process.

12. HINT: You can save the timesheet as-is, then return to it later on.

13. HINT: You can track the progress of your timesheets from the 'Timesheet'
    section of your 'Homepage'.

14. HINT: If you're a manager designated to receive requests to authorise
    timesheets, you can view them from the 'Timesheet' section of your
    'Homepage'.

Any submitted timesheet is and sent to either the Manager specified in the
project or to the financial Admin person as specified in the allocPSA
configuration, for approval and to perhaps be invoiced. 

Printing Timesheets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click the links in the top right hand corner to generate a PDF version of
the Time Sheet which conforms to Australian government standards for Tax
Invoices.

Adding a Timesheet within a Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also add a timesheet from within a project.

1. To create a new timesheet, enter the project which you want to add the
   timesheet to.

2. Enter the details and add a timesheet header.

3. Add individual timesheet items, specifying charge rates, durations, dates
   and locations.

Reviewing Existing Timesheets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also review existing timesheets you've created. 

1. From the toolbar, click on the 'Timesheet' link.

2. Decide on what Project, Status, Date From you want to filter within.
   Normally the results page will show those timesheets with edit status only.
   Choose All if you want to see all of them. Users with Admin or Manager
   privileges are able to see other people's timesheets by selecting the right
   'User Name'.

3. Press the 'Filter' button

4. Click on the timesheet you want to edit

5. Complete the details needed.

6. When complete, save or submit the timesheet as per usual.

Because timesheeting is complicated, we've added special help links for
reminders on the page.




Finance
-------


**How It Works**

The Finance tab is the gateway to most of allocPSA's
finance modules. The Finance tab contains reasonably complicated functions
which most users don't need to access. In general, only the user's TF
account and Expense Forms need to be accessed by regular/employee users.

Part of almost any professional services organisation is the management of the
finances associated with the projects and tasks which constitute the daily
operations of the organisation. As a Professional Services Automation system,
allocPSA includes a modular and flexible finance management system whose
purpose is to provide the conduit for any and all financial transactions with
the professional services organisation's accounting software. As such, allocPSA
offers the necessary modules to conduct financial transactional activities
within allocPSA (for timesheets, for project-related expense forms etc) as well
as a shadow of many of the financial transactional activities which are found
in standard modern business accounting systems, such as invoicing, cost-centre
and wages management. As with many other aspects of allocPSA, non-privileged
users will be shown a simplified view of the financial tab, while managers and
administrative users will see the full offering.

Reminder: A Tagged Fund (TF) is an allocPSA term referring to the per-project,
per-group/division or per-staff-member cost-centre which is tracked and managed
by allocPSA.

Non-privileged users will be offered these items: TF List, New Expense Form,
Search Invoices, View Pending Expense Forms and Search Transactions. Privileged
users can also see the following items: Approve Invoices, Allocate Invoices,
Upload Invoices File, New Transaction, Upload Expenses File, New TF, Push
Repeating Expenses Through, Upload Wages Files, Reconciliation Report, View
Pending Transaction.


New Tagged Fund
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/tf_new.png

   You can create new TF cost-centres for projects, staff or
   for any other purpose.

**How It Works**

When new staff or projects that need a corresponding TF cost-centre are added
to allocPSA, you can create such accounts from this section of the Finance
area. By default, for staff cost-centres, allocPSA uses a standard Payroll ID
based on a product call QuickPayroll, part of the QuickBooks accounting system.
This number would need to be reconfigured for your site's specific requirements
and accounting software. The instructions below would generally apply however.

**How To Use**

1. Fill in the contents of the form which include TF Name, Quick Payroll
   Employee Number, Quicken Account Name, Comments, and Last Modified by.

2. Press the 'Save' button to save your work

3. Click 'Return to TF List' to return to the TF List page.

This new account will have been automatically added to the TF account list.


List of Tagged Funds
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

allocPSA has the ability to track internal cost-centres (or Tagged Funds, known
within the program as TFs) for expenses and revenues related to projects, staff
and business units.

**How It Works**

If you are a normal user, a TF is your personal cost-centre account. The TF is
the account into which timesheet payments are made (credited) and from which
expense items are taken out of (debited) upon reimbursements.

If you are a manager, you may also be shown any TF cost-centres which have been
allocated to you (among possibly other managers users) to manage.

**How To Use**

Within the TF List page, there are:

1. TF Name

2. Description

3. Balance and

4. Three specific action, namely 1. Statement 2. Repeating Expenses and 3. Edit
   TF (lower level user does not have the item Edit TF)

Statement shows all the information of your payment. They are as follows:


New Transaction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/transaction.png

   Transaction detail view

**How It Works**

This facility allows for the insertion of new ad-hoc transactions into any
project or staff TF cost-centre account.

**How To Use**

Fill in the fields as per the fairly detailed descriptions and then press any
of the various 'Save' buttons. The new transaction will automatically be added
to that specific TF cost-centre account.


Search Transactions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

This facility allows you to search through the Transactions recorded in
allocPSA, using a variety of search options.

**How To Use**

There are a number of ways to search the transaction database stored within
allocPSA:

1. Firstly, you can choose the cost-centre TF of any project or staff member,
   from the drop list.

2. You can also select the status of the transactions from the drop list.
   Options include All, Pending, Rejected and Approved.

3. You can supply the period sought through dates in YYYY-MM-DD format.

4. You can also enter the Transaction ID or Expense Form ID directly.

You can also apply the various search criteria in combinations. allocPSA will
search the database and return a list of matching records.


.. figure:: images/statement.png

   A cost-centre is like an internal bank account. You can review its contents much like you would any online bank account.

A user with higher privileges can drill down into the the transactions by
clicking on any 'ID / Invoice Numbers' links will show you the invoice details. 

Repeating Expenses can let user create an expense that repeats on a fixed
basis. All that needs to be done to process the next cycle is for the financial
Admin user to press the New button, which creates the repeating transaction.

Privileged users can view all TFs by clicking the 'Edit TF' link associated
with each TF account.


Upload Invoices File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

allocPSA allows you to upload invoices from your accounting
system so the revenue can be allocated to the various project and staff
cost-centres. Although allocPSA default factory settings are for Quicken
Interchange format QIF, Cybersource can customize this facility to meet the
individual allocPSA customer needs.

**How To Use**

1. Enter the file name in the space provided, or

2. Press the 'Browse' button to search the file

3. Press the 'Upload' button after you have chosen the file

allocPSA will now take a few seconds to upload the file and add the data to the
project accounting system and will then return to the main 'Finance' page when
finish uploading.


Allocate Invoices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

Invoices, once imported into allocPSA, can be tracked, and
disbursed amongst many different cost-centres.
Allow allocation of invoices with status marking "pending"

**How To Use**

This procedure is essentially the same as 'Approve Invoices'. Refer to that
section within this manual.



Approve Invoices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

Staff and project cost centres in allocPSA support both inputs and outputs.
Outputs are items that are purchased on behalf of the cost centre. Inputs are
revenue that the cost centres is allocated. In this section of the Finance
area we can allocate invoices with status marking "allocated".

**How To Use**

1. Once in the 'Invoices to be Allocated' page, click whichever invoice number
   that you want to allocate.

2. Adjust the timesheet if needed.

3. You now have several options: 1. Mark Item as Allocated and Proceed to Next
   Item 2. Mark Item as Paid and Proceed to Next Item 3. Mark Item as Allocated
   and Return to List 4. Mark Item as Paid and Return to List

4. You can also choose 'Goto Next Invoice Item' or 'Return to Invoice Items
   List' without saving.


Search Invoices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

This facility allows you to search through the invoices that have been uploaded
to allocPSA, using a variety of search options.

**How To Use**

You can have four means to search the invoice within allocPSA:

1. Enter 'ID' and 'Invoice Name'.

2. Select the status of the invoice from the drop list within this page.
   options include 'All', 'Pending', 'Allocated' and 'Paid'.

3. Enter the period of dates in the standard YYYY-MM-DD format.

4. Enter the Invoice Number.

You can also apply the various search criteria in combinations. allocPSA will
search the database and return a list of matching records.


New Expense Form
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

Expense forms can be created in allocPSA to better represent the project
accounting costs associated with each project. For instance, if additional
laptops are needed in order to meet certain project deliverables, then the
costs for these laptops should be borne by that project. 

**How To Use**

To create a once off expense, follow the instructions below:

1. From the allocPSA toolbar, click on the 'Finance' tab.

2. From the Finance page, click on the 'New Expense Form' link.

3. Select your payment options and click the 'Create Expense Form' button.

4. Add your expense(s) by completing the details. Specify the
   supplier you purchased from, and what was purchased, the date, unit cost and
   number of units.

5. Click 'Add To List' and repeat the previous step if necessary, adding as
   many items, from as many suppliers as needed.

6. Click the 'To Admin' button when you want to submit this expense form.

7. In general, you may want to print a hardcopy of this form, so you can
   attach expense receipts or invoices for taxation purposes. You can do this
   by clicking on the 'Printer Friendly Version' in the top right-hand corner.


View Pending Expenses
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

This facility allows you to view the Pending Expense Forms allocated to the TF
cost-centre accounts you manage. This information provided includes the expense
form ID, when it was Last Modified, who it was last Modified By, the Payment
Method and Form Total.

**How To Use**

1. Click the ID link you want and go into the detail of the expenses form. You
   will access the same page as New Expense Form.

2. Follow the instructions and then press the 'Save' button to commit those
   changes.

Reconciliation Report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

Show the Reconciliation Report of each TF account

allocPSA summarizes the report into six different headings, namely

1. TF

2. Opening balance

3. Expenses

4. Salaries

5. Invoices and

6. Closing Balance

**How To Use**

You can navigate and browse through this account report by clicking on the
'Previous Month' and 'Next Month' to see the other month's reports


Upload Wages File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

Allows for the uploading of wage transaction files into TF Cost Centres,
normally in Quicken Interchange Format QIF text format, from your accounting
system.

**How To Use**

1. Enter the file name in the space provided, or

2. Press the 'Browse' button to search the file

3. Press the 'Upload' button after you have chosen the file

allocPSA will now take a few seconds to upload the file and add the data to the
project accounting system and will then return to the main 'Finance' page when
finish uploading.


New Repeating Expense
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

This will let you create an automated transaction creation. You can specify
the regularity and description and TF etc.


Repeating Expense List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

This is a list of all the Repeating Expenses. 


Execute Repeating Expenses
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

Repeating expenses are re-occurring expenses that are created by a scheduled
job that runs once per day. If that job is not run, the repeating expenses may
be manually created by clicking this link.

**How To Use**

Click the link to create all repeating expenses that are scheduled to be
created.



People
------

**How It Works**

People For higher lever user: Provide general information of each personnel.
This includes Name, Last Login, Availability, Task Summary, Graph and On Leave.
It comprises also the function of sending email to any personnel

For both higher and lower level users: Allow Changes of your personal
information including Preferred Payment TF, Skill and Absence Forms etc.

**How To Use**

1. Availability and On Leave are firstly displayed on the front page

2. If you want to see other information like Task Summary, Graph, Skill Matrix
   etc., simply click the link to get into the detail

Filter Section is the same as that in Tools - Miscellaneous Tools - Company
Wide Skill Matrix. You can have a look at the detail under the section
mentioned in the later part

You can now change your personal information as well as add or view your
absence from, and allocPSA will take you to this



Tools
-----

**How It Works**

In general, most of the tools on this tab provide additional management and
resource information, allow for customisation and offer your firm a framework
into which you can add your own, site-specific add-ons to your organisation's
allocPSA server.


Reminders
~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

Remind recipient everything regarding Client, Project, Task etc.

List of reminders which relate the user you're presently logged in as

**How To Use**

Except for the high level user, all the reminders can only be read, edited and
removed by those specific recipients!

Add Reminder:

1. Click the 'Add Reminder' link and go into the Add Reminder - Select Type
   page

2. Select what type of reminder you want to create from the drop list. Examples
   include Client, Project, Task, General. If you want a reminder which is
   independent of any task, project or client life-spans, select General.

3. Press the 'Next' button

4. Select the Project, Task or Client that this reminder will be related to,
   or, if you've selected General, allocPSA will take you to the next step.

5. Supply reminder date and time, repeat levels and early warning information,
   along with title and reminder email content.

6. Press the 'Save' button.

Your new reminder is now set and ready to trigger an email at the points you've
defined.

Update or Deleting the Reminder:

You can also update an existing reminder, by jumping back into the Reminders
page, and following these steps.

1. From the list of Reminders, click the Subject name link.

2. Update the reminder

3. Press 'Update' or 'Delete' button to finish your update.

Changes will automatically be displayed and updated.



Announcements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

You can publish announcements which will be displayed on the Home page of each
user's account, as well as within each allocPSA Daily Tasks email. From this
tool, you can add new announcements and edit existing ones. 


**How To Use**

1. Once you've entered the Announcement section, to add a new announcement
   simply click the 'New Announcement' link.

2. Supply a Heading, a date from which to start displaying this announcement, a
   date when this announcement should stop being shown, and the contents of
   your message in the Body.

3. Press the 'Save' button.

4. click the 'Return to Announcement List' link to return to the Announcement
   page.

allocPSA will automatically save and display the announcement on each user's
Home page, under the Announcement section, during the dates you specified. If
you want to edit or delete an announcement, from the Announcements page:

1. click the 'Edit' link, located at the right of each announcement.

2. Press the 'Save' button if you have made your changes

3. Click the 'Return to Announcement List' link, and allocPSA will return to
   the Announcement page.

4. Alternatively, you can also select the 'Delete' link, to remove this
   announcement.

Security
~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

This section allows you to tweak security permission for the database tables
used by allocPSA. It is possible to establish different permissions for
different user levels, for different (i.e. Read, Update, Delete, Create etc.)
actions. 

NOTE: In general, you would not need to make any changes at all to this section.

NOTE: Due to the critical nature of this configuration system. only 'god' level
users are able to see this configuration option.

**How To Use**

1. To add a new permission, click the 'New Permission' link. This will take you
   to the New Permission - Select table.

2. Select the table you want to add new permissions to, from the drop-down
   list.

3. Press the 'Next' button.

4. Supply the information needed to establish a new permission for this table.

5. Press the 'Save' button.

6. Click the 'Return to Permission List' link to return to the Permission page.

To edit an existing permission:

1. Click the 'Edit' link, shown beside each permission.

2. Make the required modifications (or even delete the permission.)

3. Press the 'Save' (or 'Delete') button

4. Click the 'Return to Permission List' link to return to the Permission page.

Your changes will be automatically updated on the Permission page and activated for all users.


Cost & Time Estimator
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

As an example of the kinds of functional extensions that can be made within
allocPSA, the Simple Cost & Time Estimator is provided, and documented here. It
is envisaged that this utility will not be of direct use to most users of
allocPSA. It is hoped that by providing this simple utility as an example, your
organisation will be inspired to visualise and eventually add your own set of
tools which can be used by your staff, to assist in day-to-day  operations at
your organisation.

**How To Use**

Based on a set of pre-determined programming and database languages, it is
possible to input various values for the scope and size of a particular
web-based database application, and this Estimator will produce a pre-figured
determination of the best-effort time and cost estimation, along with a spread
of values, based on number of resources. The values generated are based on a
pre-computed seed metric, derived from several years' evaluation of similarly
scoped projects.



Search
~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/search.png

   allocPSA allows you to search most of the main data types.
   Results will show highlighted text, relating to your search criteria.

**How It Works**

allocPSA Search is a global search engine used for searching various fields in
the database. For example, if you only remember some keywords in an
announcement that was approximately noticed in these few days, you could use
allocPSA Search to search for it rather than watching the announcement one by
one. 

**How To Use**

Decide on what type of database entity you want to search on from the drop list
within this page. This includes databases like Announcements, Clients ,
Projects , Tasks etc. Then, enter the text you want to search for. And press
the Search button. 

The systems will now take a bit time, and will return a list of records, with
the keyword you are searching for, highlighted for your convenience

You can now click the record you want to view in greater detail, and allocPSA
will take you to this.


Company Skill Matrix
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images/skill_matrix.png

   You have the ability to add your own skill types and
   levels, and categorise your resources against those skill types.

**How It Works**

This tool allows you to review, filter and drill down into the various
skillsets of your resource list as known by allocPSA. Whilst the samples
provided and screenshots shown display IT-related skills, this module can be
configured to handle any type of skill set.

**How To Use**

You can use the first droplist to select a primary (i.e. broad) skill type,
then press the 'Filter' button. You should now be able to drill down into the
sub-categorised skills by selecting from the secondary drop-list, once again
pressing the 'Filter' button. At any stage, you can print the resulting matrix.



Task Comment Templates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

In allocPSA, Task Comment Templates are used primarily as a form of open-ended
checklist system, allowing particular types of tasks to be created quickly.

The Templates are created for oft-repeated jobs and tasks. They can be enacted
when creating new Tasks. 

When creating a new comment for a task, you have the option
of invoking a pre-existing template for the text comment. This is useful if
there is a set routine or process which the person who has been allocated
the task needs to undertake. 

**How To Use**

Task Comment Templates are create by pressing the 'New Comment/Template' link.
Simply fill in the Name for this new template, and supply the check list
content in the Text section. You can be as detailed as you like. Adding text
which appears like bullet-points is a good idea. When ready, press the 'Save'
button.

You can add new templates, which then become available from
a droplist in new tasks. These templates can have place-holders, such as
Company Contact Details, Project Name etc, and allocPSA will replace these
place-holders with real values.

You can also edit and delete a Task Template by select it from the list, making
modifications and pressing the 'Save' button, or pressing the 'Delete' button.


Item Loans
~~~~~~~~~~

**How It Works**

allocPSA can track any items that your firm needs to track. It can also keep
track of who borrowed these items. The Item Loan facility is intended to be
simple and easy to use, to increase the likelihood that staff use it.

**How To Use**

allocPSA shows you a list of all the available items which
can be loaned. Simply click on the item's 'Borrow' link to borrow it.

To Add a New Loan or to Return an Item:

1. From the allocPSA toolbar, select the 'Item Loans' link.

2. Click the link 'New Loan / Return Item'. allocPSA The system will go to the
   'New Loan' page. Items and their status will be shown on this page.

3. Click 'Return' if you have borrowed the item and want to return it.

4. Click 'Borrow' if you want to borrow an item.

5. The system will take you to the next page and you simply press the 'Return
   Item' button to return the item.

6. Or in case you borrow the item, note the detail of it, select person to take
   out loan, enter the number of months you want the item for and finally press
   Borrow Item button

The system will go back to the New Loan page and action will be taken

When borrowing an item, you can select the loan duration.

You can add or edit individual items for loan or upload a file with multiple items.


Add / Edit / Remove Item:

1. To add a new item (or items) to the loan list, click the link 'Add / Edit /
   Remove Item'.

2. If you have one item to add, enter its details, specifying the Item Name and
   Notes.

3. Select the 'Type'.

4. Press the 'Save' button.

If you want to upload a list of items, possibly generated from a inventory
management system, you can upload a text file to accomplish this.

1. The text file has to be in Comma Separated Value (CSV) format. It should
   look something like this: Field One, Field Two Holly Goes to Hollywood,
   Miranda Films Janey Goes to Jamaica, GoogolPlex Distributors ...

2. Select the 'Type' of item from the drop list.

3. Click on the 'Choose' button and select the file you want to upload to
   allocPSA from your PC.

4. Click on the 'Import From File' button.





Reports
~~~~~~~

allocPSA provides an open and flexible way in which you can extract data from
its database. This is managed through the Reports interface.

**How It Works**

Reporting allows you to select which tables, fields and criteria you want to
sort and filter data out from your allocPSA database. The data can be displayed
on-screen within the web browser, or bundled into a text-based Comma Separated
Value (CSV) or TAB delimited file, for downloading to your computer. This data
can then be inserted into applications like Microsoft Excel, OpenOffice.org
Calc (http://openoffice.org/), Crystal Reports, Microsoft Access or other
reporting tools.

**How To Use**

1. Click the 'Reports' link on the allocPSA toolbar to go to the Report page.

2. Select which module you want to report on (Clients, Tasks etc.)

3. Press the 'Show Fields' button.

4. allocPSA will now display all the database table fields which pertain to
   that module.

5. If you want to pull data out of any particular field, you need to click its
   corresponding checkbox.

6. If you want to enact any filtering on that field, for instance, in answer to
   the question 'Show me all Clients companies which have names starting with
   the word HyperGlobalMegaNet', you would use the following filter criteria:
   HyperGlobalMegaNet%

7. Alternatively, you can specify number ranges, upper and lower, using the
   supplied numeric criteria fields.

8. Scroll down to the bottom and press the 'Dump Fields' button.

9. This will now dump the resulting records to your browser screen, below the
   fields and selection criteria.

10. You can choose which suitable you use as the 'Group By' aggregator, by
    selecting the choice button next to its title.

11. You can also elect to put quotes around the field data (handy when dealing
    with data which has commas etc.) by selecting the option from the 'Quotes
    around fields' droplist.

12. Rather than dumping the resulting dataset to the browser, you can tick the
    'Generate File' checkbox and allocPSA will supply the resulting dataset in
    the form of a text file.

13. You can also select a number of delimiters, comma (,), TAB (tab),
    double-hash (##) etc, which you can then use to separate your fields when
    you pull them into your report analysis application, or mail-merge
    facility.



